Add spec for writable JSON DOM (#39954)
dotnet/corefx: src/System.Text.Json/docs/writable_json_dom_spec.md

# Writable JSON Document Object Model (DOM) for `System.Text.Json`

## Introduction

`JsonNode` is a modifiable, dictionary-backed API to complement the readonly `JsonDocument`.

It is the base class for the following concrete types representing all possible kinds of JSON nodes:
* `JsonString` - representing JSON text value
* `JsonBoolean` - representing JSON boolean value (`true` or `false`)
* `JsonNumber` - representing JSON numeric value, can be created from and converted to all possible built-in numeric types
* `JsonArray` - representing the array of JSON nodes
* `JsonObject` - representing the set of properties - named JSON nodes

It is a summer internship project being developed by @kasiabulat.

## Goals

The user should be able to:
* Build up a structured in-memory representation of the JSON payload. 
* Query the document object model.

> * Modify it. That includes, remove, add, and update. This means we want to build a modifiable JsonDocument analogue that is not just readonly.

Reviewer: Once we are further along, consider expanding the samples to show what real-world snippets would like like before/after. A good candidate would be something like this (which is also using Linq operations):
https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/35048c9cfa324336497055d6543fa46b8d2de247/src/csharp/Microsoft.Spark/Interop/Ipc/JsonSerDe.cs#L22-L42
https://github.com/dotnet/templating/blob/4bd80f0577550c7f36867b53d0c074f8f3dcde17/src/Microsoft.TemplateEngine.Orchestrator.RunnableProjects/Localization/FileLocalizationModel.cs#L14-L32

> * Modify it. That includes, remove, add, and update. This means we want to build a modifiable JsonDocument analogue that is not just readonly.

Author: I have more examples there: https://github.com/kasiabulat/corefx/blob/master/src/System.Text.Json/tests/WritableJsonApiTests.cs (and other files containing parts of this class) and I chose to put here only more significant ones, but can can copy more / add some different ones based on your suggested links.

## TODOs

* Designing API
* Implementation of provided methods
* Tests of provided methods
* Documentation for public API

## Example scenarios
### Collection initialization

One of the aims in designing this API was the take an advantage of C# language features and make it easy and natural for delevopers to create instances of `JsonObject`s without calling too many `new` instructions. Below example shows how to initialize JSON object with different types of properties:

```csharp
var developer = new JsonObject
{
    { "name", "Kasia" },
    { "age", 22 },
    { "is developer", true },
    { "null property", (JsonNode) null }
};
```

JSON object can be nested within other JSON object or include a JSON array: 

```csharp
var person = new JsonObject
{
    { "name", "John" },
    { "surname", "Smith" },
    {
        "addresses", new JsonObject()
        {
            {

>                 "office", new JsonObject()

Reviewer: This is a useful sample.

In addition, it would be interesting to see an equivalent example of JsonObject creation where the values are variables and we have loops/branches/etc. @terrajobst had brought up a good point that in practice, you usually wouldn't creating of JsonObjects like this (with known values/constants).

Similar to something like:
https://github.com/dotnet/core-setup/blob/970b3a5143dfda81556f2b5efc4bfc9c053465eb/src/test/HostActivation.Tests/RuntimeConfig.cs#L49-L79
https://github.com/dotnet/cli/blob/95c6eff6daa1a69f29c42b2d405400ad44bdec91/TestAssets/TestProjects/MultiDependentProject/Program.cs#L11-L23

~So, imagine if the phone numbers were passed-in as a `List<strings>` rather than us hard-coding two values. What would the `JsonArray` node creation look like?~

Edit: The JsonArray sample below showcases it.

```csharp
string[] dishes = { "sushi", "pasta", "cucumber soup" };
IEnumerable<string> sports = sportsExperienceYears.Where(sport => ((JsonNumber)sport.Value).GetInt32() > 2).Select(sport => sport.Key);

var preferences = new JsonObject()
{
    { "colours", new JsonArray { "red", "green", "purple" } },
    { "numbers", new JsonArray { 4, 123, 88 } },
    { "prime numbers", new JsonNumber[] { 19, 37 } },
    { "dishes", new JsonArray(dishes) },
    { "sports", new JsonArray(sports) },
    { "strange words", strangeWords.Where(word => ((JsonString)word).Value.Length < 10) },
};
```

### Modifying existing instance

The main goal of the new API is to allow users to modify existing instance of `JsonNode` which is not possible with `JsonElement` and `JsonDocument`. 

One may change the existing property to have a different value:
```csharp
 var options = new JsonObject { { "use caching", true } };
 options["use caching"] = (JsonBoolean)false;
```

Add a value to existing JSON array or property to existing JSON object:
```csharp
var bestEmployees = new JsonObject(EmployeesDatabase.GetTenBestEmployees());

> bestEmployees.Add(EmployeesDatabase.GetManager());

Reviewer: Does it make sense to add an object (like  `EmployeesDatabase.GetManager()`) to a JsonObject without a property name, or should sample be about creating a JsonArray?

Author: Right, thanks for noticing this. In my examples (https://github.com/kasiabulat/corefx/blob/master/src/System.Text.Json/tests/WritableJsonApiTests.TestModifying.cs) `GetTenBestEmployees` was returning `IEnumerable<KeyValuePair<string, JsonNode>>`, but `GetManager()` actually returned `JsonObject`, so this scenario mixes two things and doesn't work. I can create two separate, clear one examples.

```

### Transforming to and from JsonElement

The API allows users to get a writable version of JSON document from a readonly one and vice versa:

Transforming JsonNode to JsonElement:
```csharp
JsonNode employeeDataToSend = EmployeesDatabase.GetNextEmployee().Value;
Mailbox.SendEmployeeData(employeeDataToSend.AsJsonElement());
```

Transforming JsonElement to JsonNode:
```csharp
JsonNode receivedEmployeeData = JsonNode.DeepCopy(Mailbox.RetrieveMutableEmployeeData());
if (receivedEmployeeData is JsonObject employee)
{
    employee["name"] = new JsonString("Bob");
}
```

### Parsing to JsonNode

If a developer knows they will be modifying an instance, there is an API to parse string right to `JsonNode`, without `JsonDocument` being an intermediary.

```csharp
string jsonString = @"
{
    ""employee1"" : 
    {
        ""name"" : ""Ann"",
        ""surname"" : ""Predictable"",
        ""age"" : 30,                
    },
    ""employee2"" : 
    {
        ""name"" : ""Zoe"",
        ""surname"" : ""Coder"",
        ""age"" : 24,                
    }
}";

JsonObject employees = JsonNode.Parse(jsonString) as JsonObject;

> employees.Add(EmployeesDatabase.GetNextEmployee());

Reviewer: Similarly here. We are showing `JsonObject.Add( some arg )`. What would the modified JSON look like if we are not specifying a property name in this case?

Should this be something like this (or maybe the property name is "employee`JObject.Count + 1`"):
```suggestion
employees.Add("employee3", EmployeesDatabase.GetNextEmployee());
```

Author: Again - `EmployeesDatabase.GetNextEmployee()` from my examples returned `KeyValuePair<string, JsonNode>` and was ment to test key-value pairs, but here without context it might be confusing, so I will change it.

Reviewer: Ah, makes sense. I assumed the wrong return type for `GetNextEmployee`.

    |----------|:-------------|:------|--------:|
    | 1 | - only one additional method <br> - accepts collection of different types <br> - accepts `IEnumerable` <br> - IntelliSense (autocompletion and showing suggestions) | - accepts collection of types not deriving from `JsonNode` <br> - needs to check it in runtime  | accepts too much, <br> array of different primary types wouldn't be returned from method |
    | 2 | - only one additional method <br> - accepts collection of different types <br > | - works  only in C# <br> - no IntelliSense <br> - users may not be aware of it <br> - accepts only `Array` <br> - accepts collection of types not deriving from `JsonNode` <br> - needs to check it in runtime | from {1,2}, <br>2 seems worse |
    | 3 | - accepts IEnumerable <br> - does not accept collection of  types not deriving from `JsonNode` <br> - no checks in runtime <br> - IntelliSense | - a lot of additional methods <br> - does not accept a collection of different types | gives less possibilities than {1,2}, but requiers no additional checks |

* Implicit operators for `JsonString`, `JsonBoolean` and `JsonNumber` as an additional feature.

> * `Sort` not implemented for `JsonArray`, beacuse there is no right way to compare `JsonObject`s. If user wants to sort `JsonArray` of `JsonNumber`s, `JsonBooleans`s or `JsonStrings` he/she now needs to do the following: convert `JsonArray` to regular array (by iterating through all elements), calling sort (and converting back to `JsonArray` if needed).

Reviewer: nit: for consistency
```suggestion
* `Sort` not implemented for `JsonArray`, beacuse there is no right way to compare `JsonObject`s. If user wants to sort `JsonArray` of `JsonNumber`s, `JsonBooleans`s or `JsonString`s he/she now needs to do the following: convert `JsonArray` to regular array (by iterating through all elements), calling sort (and converting back to `JsonArray` if needed).
```

Although, having it formatted with the `s` outside the `<code block>` makes it difficult to read/parse the sentence.

Including other feedback
```suggestion
* `Sort` not implemented for `JsonArray`, beacuse there is no right way to compare `JsonObject`s. If a user wants to sort a `JsonArray` of `JsonNumber`s, `JsonBooleans`s or `JsonStrings` they need to do the following: convert the `JsonArray` to a regular array (by iterating through all elements), call sort (and convert back to `JsonArray` if needed).
```

Author: I can change everything to ...s`

> * No support for duplicates of property names. Possibly, adding an option for user to choose from: "first value", "last value", or throw-on-duplicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* No support for duplicates of property names. Possibly, adding an option for the user to choose from: "first value", "last value", or throw-on-duplicate.
```

* No support for escaped characters when creating `JsonNumber` from string.
* Transformation API:
    * `DeepCopy` method in JsonElement allowing to change JsonElement into JsonNode recursively transforming all of the elements
    * `AsJsonElement` method in JsonNode allowing to change JsonNode into JsonElement with IsImmutable property set to false
    * `IsImmutable` property informing if JsonElement is keeping JsonDocument or JsonNode underneath

>     * `Parse(string)` in JsonNode to be able to parse Json string right into JsonNode if user knows he/she wants mutable version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Parse(string)` in JsonNode to be able to parse a JSON string right into JsonNode if the user knows they want a mutable version
```

    * `DeepCopy` in JsonNode to make a copy of the whole tree
    * `GetNode` and TryGetNode in JsonNode allowing to retrieve it from JsonElement
    * `WriteTo(Utf8JsonWriter)` in JsonNode for writing a JsonNode to a Utf8JsonWriter without having to go through JsonElement
* `JsonValueKind` property that a caller can inspect and cast to the right concrete type

## Open questions
* Do we want to add recursive equals on `JsonArray` and `JsonObject`?

> * Do we want to make `JsonNode`s derived types (and which) implement `IComparable`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do we want to make `JsonNode` derived types implement `IComparable` (which ones)?
```

    | Solution | Pros | Cons |
    |----------|:-------------|--------|
    |current API| - no additional checks need to be made | - creating recursive loop by the user may be problematic |
    |tracking nodes | - handles recursive loop problem | - when node is added to a parent, it needs to be checked <br>  if it already has a parent  and make a copy if it has |
* Do we want to change `JsonNumber`'s backing field to something different than `string`?     
    Suggestions: 
    - `Span<byte>` or array of `Utf8String`/`Char8` (once they come online in the future) / `byte`  
    - internal types that inherit from `JsonNumber`  
* Do we want to support creating `JsonNumber` from `BigInterger` without changing it to string?

## Useful links

### JSON
* grammar: https://www.json.org/
* specification: https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-404.pdf
* RFC: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259

### Similar APIs
`JsonElement` and `JsonDocument` from `System.Json.Text` API:
* video: https://channel9.msdn.com/Shows/On-NET/Try-the-new-SystemTextJson-APIs
* blogpost: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/try-the-new-system-text-json-apis/

> * spans: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/mt814808.aspx

Reviewer: nit: The link that talks about span seems out-of-place in this doc. Remove?

# Writable JSON Document Object Model (DOM) for `System.Text.Json`

## Introduction

`JsonNode` is a modifiable, dictionary-backed API to complement the readonly `JsonDocument`.

It is the base class for the following concrete types representing all possible kinds of JSON nodes:
* `JsonString` - representing JSON text value
* `JsonBoolean` - representing JSON boolean value (`true` or `false`)
* `JsonNumber` - representing JSON numeric value, can be created from and converted to all possible built-in numeric types
* `JsonArray` - representing the array of JSON nodes
* `JsonObject` - representing the set of properties - named JSON nodes

It is a summer internship project being developed by @kasiabulat.

## Goals

The user should be able to:
* Build up a structured in-memory representation of the JSON payload. 
* Query the document object model.

> * Modify it. That includes, remove, add, and update. This means we want to build a modifiable JsonDocument that is not just readonly.

Reviewer 2: It's a modifiable JsonDocument analogue, not a modifiable JsonDocument (since JsonDocument will stay readonly with the approach being pursued)

    { "age", 22 },
    { "is developer", true },
    { "null property", (JsonNode) null }
};
```

JSON object can be nested within other JSON object or include a JSON array: 

```csharp
var person = new JsonObject
{
    { "name", "John" },
    { "surname", "Smith" },
    {
        "addresses", new JsonObject()
        {
            {
                "office", new JsonObject()
                {
                    {  "address line 1", "One Microsoft Way" },
                    {  "city" , "Redmond" } ,
                    {  "zip code" , 98052 } ,
                    {  "state" , (int) AvailableStateCodes.WA }
                }
            },
            {
                "home", new JsonObject()
                {
                    {  "address line 1", "Pear Ave" },
                    {  "address line 2", "1288" },
                    {  "city" , "Mountain View" } ,
                    {  "zip code" , 94043 } ,
                    {  "state" , (int) AvailableStateCodes.CA }
                }
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "phone numbers", new JsonArray()
        {
            "123-456-7890",
            "123-456-7890" 
        }
    }
};
```

> JSON array can be also initialized easily in various ways which might be useful in different secnarios:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JSON array can be also initialized easily in various ways which might be useful in different scenarios:
```

    | 3 | - accepts IEnumerable <br> - does not accept collection of  types not deriving from `JsonNode` <br> - no checks in runtime <br> - IntelliSense | - a lot of additional methods <br> - does not accept a collection of different types | gives less possibilities than {1,2}, but requiers no additional checks |

* Implicit operators for `JsonString`, `JsonBoolean` and `JsonNumber` as an additional feature.
* `Sort` not implemented for `JsonArray`, beacuse there is no right way to compare `JsonObject`s. If user wants to sort `JsonArray` of `JsonNumber`s, `JsonBooleans`s or `JsonStrings` he/she now needs to do the following: convert `JsonArray` to regular array (by iterating through all elements), calling sort (and converting back to `JsonArray` if needed).
* No support for duplicates of property names. Possibly, adding an option for user to choose from: "first value", "last value", or throw-on-duplicate.
* Transformation API:

>     * `DeepCopy` method in JsonElement allowing to change JsonElement and JsonDocument into JsonNode recursively transforming all of the elements

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need one on JsonElement and one on JsonNode.  Just JsonNode seems more appropriate.

    * `AsJsonElement` method in JsonNode allowing to change JsonNode into JsonElement with IsImmutable property set to false
    * `IsImmutable` property informing if JsonElement is keeping JsonDocument or JsonNode underneath
    * `Parse(string)` in JsonNode to be able to parse Json string right into JsonNode if user knows he/she wants mutable version
    * `DeepCopy` in JsonNode to make a copy of the whole tree
    * `GetNode` and TryGetNode in JsonNode allowing to retrieve it from JsonElement

## Implementation details
* `JsonNumber` value is stored as a `string`.

## Open questions
API:
* Do we want to add recursive equals on `JsonArray` and `JsonObject`?
* Do we want to make `JsonNode`s derived types (and which) implement `IComparable`?

> * Would escaped characters be supported for creating `JsonNumber` from string? 

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't expect so, the strings should either have been de-escaped when reading a source JSON, or be C# strings... so neither case suggests the ctor/SetValue method should handle escaped input.

Reviewer: How about an overload that accepts `JsonEncodedText`?

* Is the API for `JsonNode` and `JsonElement` interactions sufficient? 
* Do we want to support duplicate and order preservation/control when adding/removing values in `JsonArray`/`JsonObject`?

> * Do we want to have accelerator APIs for writing a JsonNode to a Utf8JsonWriter without having to go through JsonElement? (currently added as a `Parse` method in JsonNode)

Reviewer 2: Parse is for read.  JsonNode.WriteTo(Utf8JsonWriter) seems fine to add.

Author: Ok.

> * Should JsonNode have a JsonValueKind property that a caller can inspect and cast to the right concrete type?

Reviewer 2: Yes

> * Let's say someone else passes a JsonNode to me, what can I do with it?

Reviewer 2: That's an incredibly open question :).  Either there are scenarios for it, and they need to be called out, or there aren't, and the question is sort of moot...

Author: @ahsonkhan suggestion, but probably he maybe he didn't mean actually adding it, I'll remove it.

Reviewer: Yep, this was meant as a question to provoke some thought as part of the API design of JsonNode and consider potential scenarios where one might run into that case (i.e. if JsonNode is used as an exchange type between two components to opaquely pass around a JSON payload). I would imagine specific/more meaningful questions would fall out of that exercise.

* Should nodes track their own position in the JSON graph? Do we want to allow properties like Parent, Next and Previous?

    | Solution | Pros | Cons |
    |----------|:-------------|--------|
    |current API| - no additional checks need to be made | - creating recursive loop by the user may be problematic |
    |tracking nodes | - handles recursive loop problem | - when node is added to a parent, it needs to be checked <br>  if it already has a parent  and make a copy if it has |

Implementation:
* Do we want to add a copy of `JsonWriterHelper.ValidateNumber` with additional checks?
* Do we want to change `JsonNumber`'s backing field to something different than `string`?     

>     Suggestions: `Span<byte>` or array of `Utf8String`/`Char8` (once they come online in the future) / `byte`  

Reviewer 2: I don't think the Implementation section belongs in this document at all.

>     Suggestions: `Span<byte>` or array of `Utf8String`/`Char8` (once they come online in the future) / `byte`  

Reviewer 3: Instead of string or bytes, what about internal types that inherit from JsonNumber:

Int32JsonNumber, SingleJsonNumber, DoubleJsonNumber, DecimalJsonNumber, BigIntegerJsonNumber, etc

These would hold the precise .NET type - no boxing or allocations of a string - and wouldn't loose precision. JsonNumber would have an internal ctor and instances would be created via a factory method: `JsonNumber.Create(1000000000.99m)`. This factory method would be used when doing implicit conversion to `JsonNumber`:

```cs
JsonNode integer = 1;
JsonNode dec = 1.0001m;
JsonNode bigInteger = new BigInteger(10000000000);
```

Reviewer: That's an interesting approach. Would we then remove the capability of creating a JsonNumber from a string (or text of any encoding)? If not, in your approach would we infer the best fit concrete numeric type to map the string to?

Reviewer 2: My interpretation on James' suggestion is that the build-from-string version would just have the current implementation.

The internal UIntJsonNumber and such would have to be held in a field of the JsonNumber, though, so that the SetValue methods allow it to change datatype.  E.g.

```C#
JsonArray array = (JsonArray)JsonNode.Parse("[1, 2, 3]");
array[2].SetValue(1.21m);
array.WriteTo(someWriterIHadDontAsk);
```

(Modulo real method names).

Reviewer 3: > The internal UIntJsonNumber and such would have to be held in a field of the JsonNumber

That wasn't what I meant. That would basically just be manual boxing.

I was thinking something like:

```cs
public abstract class JsonNumber
{
    public JsonTokenType Type => JsonNodeType.Number;

    public static JsonNumber Create(int i) => return new Int32JsonNumber(i);
    public static JsonNumber Create(decimal d) => return new DecimalJsonNumber(d);

    public abstract int GetInteger();
    public abstract decimal GetDecimal();
}

internal abstract class Int32JsonNumber : JsonNumber
{
    private readonly int _value;
    internal Int32JsonNumber(int value)
    {
        _value = value;
    }

    public override int GetInteger() => _value;
    public override int GetDecimal() => _value;
}
```

JsonNumber would need to be immutable for this to work.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, sorry, I combined two things.  1) JsonNode.Create(string) (so that you could transmit `1e400`, if so desired) would be the current implementation.

2) That, given that we've said the value should be mutable, it would need to be a deferred field.

If we think that the "primitive" values don't need to be mutable, (just the object and arrray ones) then directly returning specialized values would work.

Reviewer 3: Json.NET's JValue can be modified. I'm not sure how valuable that is.

Making JsonString/JsonBoolean/JsonNumber immutable is something to explore.

Reviewer 4: Should `Int32JsonNumber` be `internal sealed`?

Author: Thank you very much for the suggestion, I will add it here! I think it would be best to keep the current implementation for now and come back to the discussion during the API review. I will concentrate on trying to implement other pieces of API as my internship time is limited, I can also prepare the comparison of these solutions later on.

Reviewer: That sounds great to me!

## Example scenarios
### Collection initialization

> One of the aims in designing this API was the take advantage of C# language features and make it easy and natural for delevopers to create instances of `JsonObject`s without calling too many `new` instructions. Below example shows how to initialize JSON object with different types of properties:

Reviewer: typo:
> was the take advantage of C# language

```suggestion
One of the aims in designing this API was to take advantage of C# language features and make it easy and natural for delevopers to create instances of `JsonObject`s without calling too many `new` instructions. Below example shows how to initialize JSON object with different types of properties:
```

}";

JsonObject employees = JsonNode.Parse(jsonString) as JsonObject;

var newEmployee = new JsonObject({"name", "Bob"});

> var nextId = employees.Count + 1;

Reviewer: Don't use var here. Also, I don't think we have `Count` on `JsonObject`.

Author: Right, it would need to be `employees.Values.Count`

Author: Or `PropertyNames` - it would be more precise.

    | 3 | - accepts IEnumerable <br> - does not accept collection of  types not deriving from `JsonNode` <br> - no checks in runtime <br> - IntelliSense | - a lot of additional methods <br> - does not accept a collection of different types | gives less possibilities than {1,2}, but requiers no additional checks |

* Implicit operators for `JsonString`, `JsonBoolean` and `JsonNumber` as an additional feature.
* `Sort` not implemented for `JsonArray`, beacuse there is no right way to compare `JsonObjects`. If a user wants to sort a `JsonArray` of `JsonNumbers`, `JsonBooleans` or `JsonStrings` they now needs to do the following: convert the `JsonArray` to a regular array (by iterating through all elements), call sort (and convert back to `JsonArray` if needed).

> * No support for duplicates of property names. Possibly, adding an option for theuser to choose from: "first value", "last value", or throw-on-duplicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* No support for duplicates of property names. Possibly, adding an option for the user to choose from: "first value", "last value", or throw-on-duplicate.
```

* No support for escaped characters when creating `JsonNumber` from string.
* Transformation API:
    * `DeepCopy` method in JsonElement allowing to change JsonElement into JsonNode recursively transforming all of the elements
    * `AsJsonElement` method in JsonNode allowing to change JsonNode into JsonElement with IsImmutable property set to false
    * `IsImmutable` property informing if JsonElement is keeping JsonDocument or JsonNode underneath

>     * `Parse(string)` in JsonNode to be able to parse a Json string right into JsonNode if the user knows they wants mutable version

Reviewer: nit: capitalize `Json`
```suggestion
    * `Parse(string)` in JsonNode to be able to parse a JSON string right into JsonNode if the user knows they wants mutable version
```

* Do we want to change `JsonNumber`'s backing field to something different than `string`?     
    Suggestions: 
    - `Span<byte>` or array of `Utf8String`/`Char8` (once they come online in the future) / `byte`  
    - Internal types that are specific to each numeric type in .NET with factories to create JsonNumber 
    - Internal struct field which has all the supported numeric types
    - Unsigned long field accompanying string to store types that are <= 8 bytes long
* Do we want to support creating `JsonNumber` from `BigInterger` without changing it to string?
* Should `ToString` on `JsonBoolean` and `JsonString` return the .NET or JSON representation?

> * Do we want to keep implicict cast operators (even though for `JsonNumber` it would mean throwing in some cases, which is against FDG)?

Reviewer: typo:
```suggestion
* Do we want to keep implicit cast operators (even though for `JsonNumber` it would mean throwing in some cases, which is against FDG)?
```
